docs: tw-352-arbitrum-chain-gas-optimization-tools (#2432)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/06-gas-optimization-tools.mdx

---
title: 'Configure and optimize gas'
description: 'Learn how to configure and optimize gas for your Arbitrum chain'
author: petevielhaber
sme:
content_type: how-to
---

> To configure gas behavior on an Arbitrum Orbit chain, you primarily use the ArbOwner precompile (at address `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000070`), which allows the chain owner to manage key parameters via function calls. These are invoked with post-deployment using tools like `cast` (from Foundry) or a custom script with a library like `ethers.js` or `viem`. Some parameters can also be set initially during chain deployment via the Arbitrum chain setup script's configuration (e.g., in fields like `minL2BaseFee` for the gas price floor). The defaults inherit from the parent chain or standard Nitro settings, but customization is possible for Arbitrum chains as they are permissioned by design.

Reviewer: Do we also want to mention orbit sdk here?

Author: Good call -

- **Default (Arbitrum One)**: 7,000,000 gas/second.
- **Configuration**: Call the `setSpeedLimit(uint256 newSpeedLimit)` method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/build-decentralized-apps/precompiles/02-reference.mdx#arbowner), where `newSpeedLimit` is the desired gas per second.

Example using `cast`:

```shell
cast send --rpc-url $ORBIT_RPC --private-key $OWNER_KEY 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000070 "setSpeedLimit(uint256)" $NEW_SPEED_LIMIT
```

This configuration is adjustable post-deployment. Any modifications should align with your node's capabilities to prevent issues with the congestion mechanism activating.

Refer to the [Chain parameters](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/03-chain-params.mdx) page, or the [Additional configuration parameters](/launch-arbitrum-chain/reference/additional-configuration-parameters.md) for more information.

## Block Gas Limit

> - **Description**: This limits the maximum amount consumable by all transactions in a single L2 block. It helps control block size and processing time. In practice, ArbOS enforces a dynamic limit based on the speed limit and gas pools, but this sets a hard cap (often aligned with the maximum gas per transaction in the documentation, as blocks can contain multiple transactions).

Reviewer: We need to say the gas limit is only for execution, doesn't include l1 gas usage

> - **Description**: This limits the maximum amount consumable by all transactions in a single L2 block. It helps control block size and processing time. In practice, ArbOS enforces a dynamic limit based on the speed limit and gas pools, but this sets a hard cap (often aligned with the maximum gas per transaction in the documentation, as blocks can contain multiple transactions).

Reviewer: We need to mention the gas limit here just means for execution part, not for parent chain da fee charge

Author: Will add -

- **Default (Arbitrum One)**: 0.01 `gwei` (10,000,000 `wei`).
- **Configuration**:
  - **During deployment**: Set the `minL2BaseFee` field in the Orbit setup script's config JSON.
  - **Post-deployment**: Call the `setMinimumL2BaseFee(uint256 newMinBaseFee)` method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/build-decentralized-apps/precompiles/02-reference.mdx#arbowner), where `newMinBaseFee` is the value in `wei`.

Example using `cast`:

```shell
cast send --rpc-url $ORBIT_RPC --private-key $OWNER_KEY 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000070 "setMinimumL2BaseFee(uint256)" $NEW_FLOOR_IN_WEI
```

You can query the current floor via the ArbGasInfo precompile's `getMinimumGasPrice()`.

Refer to the [Chain parameters](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/03-chain-params.mdx), [Additional configuration parameters](/launch-arbitrum-chain/reference/additional-configuration-parameters.md), or the [How to manage the fee parameters](/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/07-fee-management.mdx) pages for more information.

## Per Batch Gas Cost

> - **Description**: This refers to the fixed L2 gas charge applied for the overhead of posting each batch to the parent chain (e.g., Arbitrum One or Nova). It is used in transaction pricing to amortize the parent chain's fixed costs (like calldata posting) over the batch's transactions. It can be adjusted to reflect actual posting costs or incentivize batching. The surplus (if any) gets rewarded to the batch poster.

Reviewer: The charge is in l1 gas: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/master/precompiles/ArbOwner.go#L218
```suggestion
- **Description**: This refers to the fixed L1 base charge applied for the overhead of posting each batch to the parent chain (e.g., Arbitrum One or Nova). It is used in transaction pricing to amortize the parent chain's fixed costs (like calldata posting) over the batch's transactions. It can be adjusted to reflect actual posting costs or incentivize batching. The surplus (if any) gets rewarded to the batch poster.
```
